= hadooplib (beta)

A JRuby based Hadoop Client Library allowing to build Hadoop management applications. The basic functions cover HDFS and MapRed using the native Hadoop 1.1.2 APIs.


== Install

gem install hadooplib

== Usage (example)

	require 'hadooplib'

	default_name = 'hdfs://localhost:8020'
	path = '/'

	hdfs_client = HDFS.new(default_name, path)
	fs = hdfs_client.instance_variable_get(:@fs)
	top_dir = hdfs_client.instance_variable_get(:@top_dir)
	uri = hdfs_client.instance_variable_get(:@uri)
	cs = hdfs_client.instance_variable_get(:@cs)

	items = hdfs_client.hdfs_recurse(top_dir, fs, uri, cs)

	hdfs_items = JSON.parse(items)

	hdfs_items.each do |item|
	  item.each do |k, v|
	    puts "#{k}: #{v}"
	  end
	end 

	puts "Total Diectories: #{hdfs_client.instance_variable_get(:@total_dir_count)} and Total Files: #{total = hdfs_client.instance_variable_get(:@total_file_count)}"



== Features

HDFS - get metrics (console and db)


== ToDo

More HDFS and begin MapRed


== Contributing to hadooplib
 
* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet.
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it.
* Start a feature/bugfix branch.
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution.
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2013 Murali Raju. See LICENSE.txt for further details.



